---
title: The Reading
layout: essay
order: 110
# image:
---

> There is not and will not be new literature anymore.\
> There will be, perhaps, new ways to communicate that will include language or will use language as a basis.”

-   Ulises Carrión

Carrión claims that “to read old art, knowing the alphabet is enough.” In the new art, he states that “every book requires a different reading” and “appeals to the ability every man possesses for understanding and creating signs and systems of signs.” *Arguments* is an amalgamation of different reading systems and signs that all fall under the subject of an argument. To highlight the various methods of reading Carrión creates, we will look at Argument 20 and Argument 5.

## Argument 20 

-   Page numbers: 73-74

-   Images: 53-54

-   Paper color: Purple

The standard method of reading proceeds from left to right, top to bottom. With each subsequent argument, Carrión challenges the reader to decipher the new method of reading he has created. In Argument 20, between Nicholas and Emma, he has created a system of reading the two columns of names simultaneously. Because the argument is comprised of the same word; Nicholas and Emma, the reader can anticipate the pattern and scan the page from top down, stopping to notice the disruption in the pattern in the lower left corner when the pattern breaks and Nicholas’ name becomes jumbled and loses letters. Rather than reading left to right, top to bottom, “reading” in this instance is akin to a form of pattern recognition through space navigated from the top of the page to the bottom.

## Argument 5

-   Page numbers: 27-32

-   Images: 15-18

-   Paper color: Brown

While Argument 20 creates a reading system of spatial pattern recognition, Argument 5 is sequential. Through the inclusion of “a)” “b)” etc. Carrión indicates to the reader that there is a set order to read these arguments. Each subsection is comprised of a column of names ending with the word “etc.” Intuitively, each one of these sections is read from top to bottom then moving onto the next section. This reading system is enforced by section “n” which reads “et cetera” letter by letter from top to bottom. This section functions as a key for the reading system Carrión created for argument 5. Through taking the word “etc,” which had previously been written at the end of each section horizontally and manipulating it to not only cap the end of the argument as a whole, but to indicate the reading system created visually enforces the top to bottom left to right reading order.
